README.md, before:

Juggernaut
================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut.png)](https://travis-ci.org/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut)

# Getting Started

To run this application we recommend MySQL and Ruby > 1.8.6 (1.8.7, 1.9.2-p290). Please note the application has not been tested against versions of Ruby later than 1.9.2-p290. This guide assumes that you have RVM installed to manage your Rubies.

## RVM & Rubygems

You'll need to have RVM installed from here on out. If you don't have it you can find install instructions [here](https://rvm.io/).

If you don't already have it then go ahead and grab Ruby 1.9.2:

```bash
rvm install ruby-1.9.2-p290
```

Then switch to that Ruby and create a new gemset for this application:

```bash
rvm 1.9.2-p290@juggernaut --create #note the --create makes a new gemset if you don't already have one.
```

Next you need to grab the gems for the application. Assuming you're in The-Juggernaut checked out repo locally you can do this as follows:

```bash
bundle
```

## Configuring the database

Next we need to set up the database for the application. The configuration is in config/database.yml  and by default is set up as follows:

```yaml
development:
  adapter: mysql2
  host: localhost
  username: root
  password: 
  database: the_juggernaut_development
```

Modify these settings for your particular setup (username/password) and when you're ready to create your databases and set up the database structure run the following:

```ruby
rake db:create
rake db:schema:load
```

## Booting the application

Provided all of the previous steps have run without error you should now be able to boot the application screen by executing the standard Rails boot:

```ruby
rails server
```

Checking in on [http://0.0.0.0:3000](http://0.0.0.0:3000) you should see a page render with the message 'You need to log in · Would you like to classify some images?'

## Setting up a workflow

By default there are no images ([Subjects](https://github.com/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut/blob/master/app/models/subject.rb)) available to be classified. To test out the functionality you need to bootstrap the application with a test workflow based on the Galaxy Zoo Hubble decision tree. You can instantiate that as follows:

```ruby
rake workflow:execute[hubble]
```

## Stubbing out some Subjects

By default there are 4 images included with the application to help test out the Hubble Workflow. There's also a rake task you can run that should import these.

```ruby
rake load_test_subjects
```

Note that this task assumes that the id (in the database) for the Hubble workflow is '1'. If this is not the case then you'll need to edit this task to get the application working.


## You're done!

That's about it. At this point you should have a working application saving classifications and annotations to the database and the option to favourite items during classification.

```ruby
rails server
```

Commit message:

Added a note on JavaScript runtime and the juggernaut_test database.

README.md, after:

Juggernaut
================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut.png)](https://travis-ci.org/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut)

# Getting Started

To run this application we recommend MySQL and Ruby > 1.8.6 (1.8.7, 1.9.2-p290). Please note the application has not been tested against versions of Ruby later than 1.9.2-p290. This guide assumes that you have RVM installed to manage your Rubies. You'll also need a JavaScript runtime.

## RVM & Rubygems

You'll need to have RVM installed from here on out. If you don't have it you can find install instructions [here](https://rvm.io/).

If you don't already have it then go ahead and grab Ruby 1.9.2:

```bash
rvm install ruby-1.9.2-p290
```

Then switch to that Ruby and create a new gemset for this application:

```bash
rvm 1.9.2-p290@juggernaut --create #note the --create makes a new gemset if you don't already have one.
```

Next you need to grab the gems for the application. Assuming you're in The-Juggernaut checked out repo locally you can do this as follows:

```bash
bundle
```

## Configuring the database

Next we need to set up the database for the application. The configuration is in config/database.yml and by default is set up as follows:

```yaml
development:
  adapter: mysql2
  host: localhost
  username: root
  password: 
  database: the_juggernaut_development

test:
  adapter: mysql2
  host: localhost
  username: root
  password: 
  database: the_juggernaut_test
```

Modify these settings for your particular setup (username/password) and when you're ready to create your databases and set up the database structure run the following:

```ruby
rake db:create
rake db:schema:load
```

## Booting the application

Provided all of the previous steps have run without error you should now be able to boot the application screen by executing the standard Rails boot:

```ruby
rails server
```

Checking in on [http://0.0.0.0:3000](http://0.0.0.0:3000) you should see a page render with the message 'You need to log in · Would you like to classify some images?'

## Setting up a workflow

By default there are no images ([Subjects](https://github.com/zooniverse/The-Juggernaut/blob/master/app/models/subject.rb)) available to be classified. To test out the functionality you need to bootstrap the application with a test workflow based on the Galaxy Zoo Hubble decision tree. You can instantiate that as follows:

```ruby
rake workflow:execute[hubble]
```

## Stubbing out some Subjects

By default there are 4 images included with the application to help test out the Hubble Workflow. There's also a rake task you can run that should import these.

```ruby
rake load_test_subjects
```

Note that this task assumes that the id (in the database) for the Hubble workflow is '1'. If this is not the case then you'll need to edit this task to get the application working.


## You're done!

That's about it. At this point you should have a working application saving classifications and annotations to the database and the option to favourite items during classification.

```ruby
rails server
```
